---
layout:     post
title:      PPC Twitterbot Project
date:       2019-11-11 11:11:11 -0500
modified:   2019-11-19 20:20:20 -0500
version:    2
categories: Technology
tags:       ppc politics python tweepy programming
---

Back in February, I started a research project using the 
[Tweepy][tweepy] library in [Python][python].  Around that time, the 
leader of the [People's Party of Canada][ppc] (PPC), Maxime Bernier, 
asked people to follow the accounts that he followed, and retweet their 
tweets.

That was a big job, so I wrote a Python script to create a list to 
which others could subscribe.  The next task was to isolate PPC-related 
tweets.  This was the genesis of my twitter bot.  It listens for 
PPC-related tweets from the accounts followed by Maxime Bernier.

After a while, I wrote another Python script to generate Top Tweets 
lists.  It generates daily Top Ten and weekly Top 40 lists of the most 
popular PPC-related tweets.  It also served to help PPC supporters find 
each other and relevant information.

We built a solid community on Twitter, able to dominate most threads 
and get hashtags trending.  This was particularly useful in getting the 
attention of the debate organizers.

Anyway, it is is a real shame that the Conservatives' hiring of Warren 
Kinsella's Daisy Group (aka. [Project Cactus][cactus]) to smear Maxime 
Bernier is being swept under the rug, so to speak.  It is a federal 
crime under Section 91 of the Canada Elections Act, which specifically 
makes spreading lies about your opponents during the writ period 
illegal.

> Elections Act, 91 (1) No person or entity shall, with the intention 
> of affecting the results of an election, make or publish, during the 
> election period, (a) a false statement that a candidate, a 
> prospective candidate, the leader of a political party or a 
> public figure associated with a political party has committed an 
> offence under an Act of Parliament or a regulation made under such 
> an Act—or under an Act of the legislature of a province or a 
> regulation made under such an Act—or has been charged with or is 
> under investigation for such an offence; or (b) a false statement 
> about the citizenship, place of birth, education, professional 
> qualifications or membership in a group or association of a 
> candidate, a prospective candidate, the leader of a political party 
> or a public figure associated with a political party.

[source][cea91]

It seems we no longer enjoy the rule of law in Canada.  Canadians should 
be furious.


[cea91]:    https://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/elections-canada-section-91-2019-election-1.5345250
[ppc]:      https://peoplespartyofcanada.ca/?recruiter_id=964689
[cactus]:   https://www.theglobeandmail.com/politics/article-kinsella-firm-hired-to-seek-and-destroy-berniers-peoples-party/
[python]:   https://python.org
[tweepy]:   https://pypi.org/project/tweepy


